This is how we write imaginators with your Android phone
Using a Gen 2 tags
or in this case
Gen 2 key fobs.
You can also use cards, round tags and so on.
But they need to be
a Gen 2.
On my Android phone I have the Mifare Classic Tool application
and I already have some dumps imported here.
They are file format MCT.
So how did I get those?
I've transferred some original NFC dumps to my phone.
They are inside my "Downloads" folder and now using the "Tools".
And "Import/Export/Convert files" menu.
I went to "Import dumps", I went to ".bin/.mfd/.dump".
And now I see inside my "Downloads" folder,
those are the original dump files.
That's the original format.
And when I imported them with the program, they were converted to MCT format.
Those are the files that I'm using now.
And the original dumps,
they're from the Ultimate NFC Pack.
Pretty much they're the most proper ones.
I only have a creation crystals for Skylanders Imaginators.
What I'm going to do, I'm going to use this
"Write Tag" option.
I'm going to "Write Dump (Clone)"
and I'm going to "Show Options", Because I need to click here on this
"Advanced: Enable writing to manufacturer block"
I need to have this option selected.
I need to get one of the tags,
and it needs to be registered with the NFC writer.
See on the bottom it says "New UID found".
Now this tag is registered.
I use this menu to select them.
Right now we are doing the first dump - Fire Acorn
Select the dump and now the process here
it's done in 3 steps.
The first step is flashing all the other sectors,
but not sector 0.
You just deselect sector 0.
We don't want to flash sector 0 on the first run,
so we flash it from 1 to 15
Which is the last sector.
I click OK, it asks for keys.
Those are empty tags,
so the keys will be standard keys.
I click start mapping and it says "3 keys loaded".
All the sectors here are now recognized.
It says "Warning: The Access conditions will be irreversible"
That's OK.
You click "Write as much as possible"
Click that and now you are done with this step.
Now some people recommended that you just re-register the tag
see that the tag was re-registered
And now I go to the second part
and the second part is a bit tricky.
Right now we have from sector 1 to sector 15.
We need sector 0 as well.
We go back again, we go to the same menu
"Write Dump"
We go to the "Show options"
we go to the "Advanced: Enable writing to manufacturer block".
Now we click "Select dump" and use the same dump.
You need to be very careful here.
You cannot use another dump.
Go there.
Now from all this, you just click "select none"
and you select "Sector 0",
the only sector that we were missing.
And now this is the important part.
Now I'm going to use again the standard keys.
And now look at this.
It says on sector 0 there are several blocks,
and on sector 0, block 0 and block 3
will be filled with data.
And it says on sector 0, block 0
The UID will be changed.
The UID, BCC, SAK, ATAQ and everything else
will be filled with data in this order.
And now that's a bit of an issue because now
the card is registered with its original UID.
If we go down here and remember, the original UID
was shown here.
And now when I click write as much as possible,
the first thing it will going to do, it will
overwrite the original UID.
The moment it overwrites the UID, the tag will disconnect
and I won't be able to write the other things
like the rest of the blocks.
Look at this.
Now I click "write as much as possible"
And let's look at the bottom here
I click on it and now the UID was instantly
rewritten and the tag disconnected
and that was not a whole Sector 0 write.
What I need to do?
I need to just re-register this tag again.
Now I go back there and I go "Select Dump"
With "Advanced Manufacturer enabled"
I go here again on the same thing and now
I also use "Select None".
I then select "Sector 0" and now with the new UID
because now I have the new UID
from the NFC dump itself.
I continue this step and now it will actually write
the BCC, SAK, ATAQ and so on.
And now they are finally written.
See data successfully written and now if I try to
read the tag again or write to this tag,
I won't be able to because now the keys are
completely different.
I will select all of them for the test.
I'm trying to recognize this tag and it says
"No valid key found", because this tag already
have a proper creation crystal on it.